MICHAEL, WE LOVE YOU.
WE WANT TO CONVEY THAT TO YOU.
IF YOU LIVE LIKE THE DEVIL,
YOU'RE GOING TO DIE AND GO
STRAIGHT TO HELL.
MY SISTER CALLED AND SAID I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU PRAY TO GOD,
BUT YOU BETTER START.
WHEN I SAW THE FLYER, I
REALLY THOUGHT IT WAS A HOAX.
THIS CHURCH HAS A WEBSITE
CALLED GOD HATES FAGS.COM.
THE PEOPLE OF SAND SPRINGS,
OKLAHOMA HAD NEVER SEEN ANYTHING
QUITE LIKE IT.
TO SEE MY SON'S NAME ON FLYER
I COULDN'T BEAR IT.
IT IS A SIN.
BECAUSE GOD DID CREATE ADAM AND
EVE.
I'M KNOWN AS THE FAG, THAT
GAY KID.
I DREADED EVERY DAY.
IT OPENED MY EYES TO HOW MUCH
DISCRIMINATION WE DO HAVE.
TONIGHT, THE MIRACLE.
ONE TOWN'S STRUGGLE WITH GOD,
GAYS, BIGOTRY AND COMPASSION.
Announcer: REPORTING FROM
WASHINGTON, TED KOPPEL.
IF YOU WANT TO BE OFFENDED BY
TONIGHT'S BROADCAST, YOU WILL,
NO DOUBT, FIND A WAY.
PERHAPS, IN FACT, THERE IS NO
WAY OF DEALING WITH THE STRUGGLE
OF A YOUNG HOMOSEXUAL IN THE
HEART OF OKLAHOMA'S BIBLE BELT
WITHOUT OFFENDING SOMEONE AND
WHAT IS "NIGHTLINE" AFTER ALL IF
NOT A MEDIA OUTLET.
INDEED, IT'S WORSE THAN YOU
THINK.
ALL OF THE ORIGINAL REPORTING
FOR THIS STORY WAS DONE BY ANN
HALL, A STAFF WRITER FOR "THE
WASHINGTON POST," IF YOU PLEASE.
YOU CAN BET WHERE THIS STORY IS
COMING FROM.
SUSPEND JUDGMENT FOR A FEW
MINUTES.
DAN MORRIS DID RELY HEAVILY ON
ANN HALL'S REPORTING WHICH
SPREAD OVER MUCH OF 2004 BUT
MOST OF THIS STORY IS TOLD
THROUGH THE VOICES OF THE DEEPLY
RELIGIOUS DAP TIFT FAMILY.
THE PASTOR OF THEIR LOCAL CHURCH
AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY, ALL OF THEM TRYING TO
DESPERATELY TO RECONCILE THEIR
PROFOUND BELIEF THAT
HOMOSEXUALITY IS A SIN AGAINST
GOD AND A LOVE AND COMPASSION
THAT THEY FEEL FOR ONE OF THEM
OWN, 17-YEAR-OLD MICHAEL
SHACKELFORD.
* I'LL BE SOMEWHERE
IN WHAT YOU FEEL *
* LOOKING FOR A PLACE
TO CALL HOME **
MY MOM AND SISTER, THEY HAD
NO CLUE.
MEL HAGGARD WAS MY FAVORITE.
MY FIRST CAR WAS A TRUCK.
AN OLD BROWN TRUCK.
I LOVE MY TRUCK.
IT'S MY BABE.
**
I'D BE PLAYING MERLE HAGGARD
AND THEY'D HAVE NO CLUE.
THAT'S WHY THEY COULDN'T
UNDERSTAND, YOU KNOW, WHAT WENT
WRONG?
THEY SAID I'M A MAN.
**
Reporter:.
IT WAS SHATTERING.
IT SCARED ME.
IT HURT.
OF COURSE, WITH MY RELIGIOUS
BELIEFS, IT WAS SOMETHING THAT
JUST WAS NOT, YOU KNOW, YOU JUST
DIDN'T DO, YOU KNOW?
AND I HAD READ THE VERSES THAT,
YOU KNOW, THAT SAID HOMOSEXUALS
WILL NOT INHERIT IN HEAVEN.
I THOUGHT IT WAS DISGUSTING
AT FIRST.
IT MADE ME FEEL -- IT'S LIKE I
KNEW MY BROTHER GROWING UP MY
ENTIRE LIFE AND NOW I DIDN'T
KNOW HOW TO TALK TO HIM.
IT WAS GROSS TO THINK, YOU KNOW,
OH, MY GOSH, THAT'S MY BROTHER.
I TOLD HIM MANY TIMES THROUGH
LOTS OF TEARS THAT I THINK THE
ONE THING, ESPECIALLY A MOTHER,
I SAID, YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT
TO GET TO HEAVEN, AT THE END OF
THIS LIFETIME AND YOU NOT BE
THERE WITH ME.
AND THAT, IN ITSELF, HURTS MORE
THAN ANYTHING.
THAT'S THE BIGGEST FEAR.
SAND SPRINGS IS SEVEN MILES
FROM TULSA, BUT IN MANY WAYS,
IT'S A LOT FARTHER.
IT REALLY IS A SMALL TOWN.
I CAME TO SAND SPRINGS TO WRITE
ABOUT THE EXPERIENCE OF A YOUNG
GAY PERSON COMING OF AGE IN THE
BIBLE BELT IN THE YEAR 2004,
WHICH THE TOPIC OF HOMOSEXUALITY
AND SAME SEX MARRIAGE WAS VERY
MUCH IN THE NATIONAL
CONVERSATION.
WITHIN TWO WEEKS OF OKLAHOMA'S
2004 LEGISLATIVE SESSION, TEN
AIN'T-GAY BILLS WERE INTRODUCED
INTO THE LEGISLATURE.
THERE WAS A HUGE DEBATE GOING ON
ABOUT SAME SEX MARRIAGE AND ITS
STATE.
ONE OF THE FIERCEST IN THE WHOLE
COUNTRY.
**
I WOULD SAY, OVERALL, THAT IN
SAND SPRINGS, WE ARE MUCH LIKE
THE STATE, THAT WE ARE VERY
CONSERVATIVE AND THE VIEW OF
HOMOSEXUALITY IS ONE THAT IT'S A
SIN.
IT IS WRONG IN THAT IT IS A
AND I DON'T -- I DON'T THINK
THAT THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO GET
MARRIED OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT
BECAUSE GOD DID CREATE ADAM AND
EVE AND THAT'S JUST WHAT I
BELIEVE.
I SENT HIM TO A PSYCHIATRIC
CENTER.
AND, AT THAT TIME, BELIEVING
THAT HOMOSEXUALITY WAS A DISEASE
AN ABNORMALITY.
I THOUGHT I COULD GET HELP FOR
HIM THERE.
AT FIRST, I WAS NERVOUS,
BECAUSE I THOUGHT MY MOM IS
GOING TO TRY TO HAVE THEM CHANGE
ME, BUT THEN IT WAS A SAFE
PLACE.
I GOT TO BE MYSELF.
IT WASN'T AN ISSUE THERE.
BUT THE PROBLEM WAS IS THAT
THEY WERE ACCEPTING OF THIS WHAT
I CALL CHOSEN BEHAVIOR.
I GOT VERY FRUSTRATED WITH THE
PSYCHIATRIC FIELD.
Reporter: MICHAEL ATTENDED
CHARLES PAIGE HIGH SCHOOL.
THE ONE HIGH SCHOOL IN SAND
SPRINGS.
FOR MICHAEL, THE SCHOOL
ATMOSPHERE GOT PRETTY TENSE LAST
YEAR.
I WAS KNOWN AS THE FAG, THAT
GAY KID.
I'D MAKE SURE TO WALK IN THE
HALLS WHEN A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE
AROUND.
I NEVER WENT TO THE BOOTH ROOM.
NOT EVEN -- I JUST WAS AFRAID TO
GO TO THE BATHROOM.
I DREADED EVERY DAY.
I'D PULL UP IN THE PARKING LOT
AND JUST SIT THERE FOR A MINUTE
AND TRYING TO PRAY, BUT IT'S NOT
AS BAD, MAYBE THEY'LL JUST LEAVE
ME ALONE.
Reporter: AFTER MICHAEL HAD
BEEN GAY FOR SOME MONTHS, JANICE
WENT TO HER PASTOR, BILL EUBANKS
AT CORNER STONE CHURCH AND
TALKED TO BILL ABOUT WHAT THEY
COULD DO TO MICHAEL AND BRING
MICHAEL BACK TO THE HETEROSEXUAL
WAY OF LIVING.
WITHOUT HIM, WE ARE NOTHING.
Reporter: AS MICHAEL
CONTINUED TO GO TO CHURCH, THE
ATMOSPHERE IN OKLAHOMA BECAME
MORE CHARGED OF THE POLITICAL
SEASON.
PRESIDENT BUSH CAME OUT AND
CALLED FOR A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT ON BANNING GAY
MARRIAGE.
SO PASTOR EUBANKS NEEDED TO
ADDRESS THIS FROM THE PULPIT IN
SOME WAY.
BUT HE WENT UP TO JANICE BEFORE
THE CHURCH SERMON THIS ONE
SUNDAY WHEN HE WAS GOING TO
PREACH ABOUT IT.
I SAID, "JANICE, I JUST WANT
TO MAKE YOU AWARE OF THIS, THAT
I'LL BE SPEAKING ABOUT THIS
ISSUE."
AND I'M NOT POINTING FINGERS.
I'M NOT TRYING TO JUMP DOWN
ANYONE'S THROAT OR ANYTHING TO
CONDEMN, BUT I FEEL LIKE I NEED
TO SPEAK THIS TRUTH.
Reporter: EUBANKS PROCEEDED
TO SAY FROM THE PULPIT WHAT HE
THOUGHT ABOUT GAY MARRIAGE AND
HOMOSEXUALITY AS THE BIBLE
TAUGHT IT AND JANICE WAS
MORTIFIED.
SHE THOUGHT THE WHOLE CHURCH,
THERE WAS PROBABLY 500 PEOPLE IN
CHURCH THAT DAY THAT WAS
THINKING THAT EUBANKS WAS
DIRECTING A SERMON AT JANICE AND
MICHAEL.
ONE WEEKEND, IT WAS A COLD
FEBRUARY WEEKEND, MICHAEL
PAINTED FLAMES ON THE FRONT OF
HIS CHEVY SHY ENTRUCK.
HE THOUGHT IT WAS SOMETHING HE
HAD SEEN IN THE STOCK CAR RACES.
I TOOK SO MUCH PRIDE IN THAT.
I DID IT ALL BY MYSELF WITH
MASKING TAPE.
I WAS SO PROUD GOING TO SCHOOL
THAT DAY WITH MY LITTLE FLAMES.
IT WAS QUICKLY SHOT DOWN.
THEY WERE POINTING, LAUGHING,
FLIPPING ME OFF.
SAYING THAT NOW I'M A FLAMING
HOMO, FLAMING FAG.
AND A QUEER.
SO I JUST KEPT DRIVING.
DROVE HOME.
WHEN WE COME BACK, "THE
WASHINGTON POST" SERIES ON
MICHAEL IMPROVES HIS LIFE
DRAMATICALLY AND CHANGES LIFE IN
A SMALL TOWN IN WAYS IT COULD
NEVER HAVE IMAGINED.
I SAW THE FLYER.
I REALLY THOUGHT IT WAS A HOAX.
I THOUGHT THIS CANNOT BE REAL.
IT WAS FIRST A SHOCK TO SEE
MICHAEL'S PICTURE ON THE FRONT
PAGE.
I MEAN, THAT WAS SOMETHING.
WHAT I FELT, AS I WAS READING IT
"THE WASHINGTON POST" ARTICLE, I
WAS READING IT AND IT WAS LIKE
MY LIFE LAID OUT THERE.
YOU KNOW, I'M READING ABOUT
MYSELF, ABOUT MY FAMILY.
Reporter: IT'S HARD FOR SOME
PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND.
HERE YOU HAD A MOM WHO HADN'T
TOLD ANYBODY THAT SHE HAD A GAY
SON AND, YET, SHE'S WILLING TO
TALK TO "THE WASHINGTON POST"
AND JANICE REALLY BELIEVED THERE
WAS A PUBLIC SERVICE ELEMENT TO
THIS.
SHE FELT LIKE THERE WERE OTHER
MOTHERS AND OTHER PARENTS
PROBABLY GOING THROUGH THIS VERY
ISOLATING, LONELY, TERRIFYING
EXPERIENCE, AND SHE FELT IF
THERE WAS ONE OTHER PERSON WHO
MIGHT READ THIS STORY, IT WOULD
BE WORTH ANY RISK.
THE FIRST THING I THOUGHT WAS
OH, MY GOODNESS, COULD WE NOT
HAVE USED LAST NAMES?
THAT WAS -- I WAS A LITTLE
FEARFUL WITH THAT.
I LEARNED THINGS ABOUT MICHAEL
THAT I DIDN'T KNOW.
AND THAT WAS HARD.
I DON'T WANT TO READ STUFF LIKE
THAT.
I DON'T WANT TO KNOW SOME THINGS
THINGS.
IT BROUGHT TEARS, YOU KNOW?
I CRIED.
BUT IT WAS VERY ACCURATE.
EVERYTHING THAT WAS SAID THAT I
DID, YOU KNOW, WITH QUOTING
SCRIPTURES AND PRAYING OVER HIS
ROOM, EVERYTHING WAS ACCURATE.
I DID THAT.
Reporter: HE RECEIVED
HUNDREDS OF LETTERS FROM READERS
AROUND THE COUNTRY, MANY OF THEM
MEN WHO HAD GROWN UP IN RURAL
AMERICA IN THE HEARTLAND, IN
FARMING REGIONS AND HAD HAD
MICHAEL'S EXACT SAME EXPERIENCE.
I GOT THIS BIG PACKAGE IN THE
MAIL.
IT SAID FROM TED AND I HAD NO
IDEA WHO TED ALLEN WAS.
I OPENED IT AND THERE WAS A BOOK
A NEW BOOK CALLED "QUEER GUY."
AND I READ THE BOOK AND AMAZING
THE SUPPORT FROM HIM.
IT WAS PROBABLY -- I CAN'T
REMEMBER.
MAYBE TWO WEEKS AFTER "THE
WASHINGTON POST" ARTICLE, OUR
PASTOR CALLED ME AT WORK AND
SAID THAT HE'D RECEIVED A FAX
FROM A WESTBORO BAPTIST CHURCH.
WHEN I SAW THAT FLYER, I WAS
SHOCKED, A LITTLE BIT ANGRY.
HOW DARE THEY.
MY SISTER CALLED AND SAID, "I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU PRAY TO GOD,
BUT YOU BETTER START."
IT WAS LIKE WHY?
SHE WAS LIKE, "WELL, PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO COME PROTEST OUR CHURCH
BECAUSE OF YOU."
I HAD WALKED INTO MY JOB AND
A LADY, TWO OF THE LADIES THERE
WERE JUST KIND OF LOOKING AT'
MOOP.
AND I SAID, "WHAT?"
THEY SAID, "YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE
FLYER?"
WHEN I SAW THE FLYER, I
REALLY THOUGHT IT WAS A HOAX.
I THOUGHT THIS CANNOT BE REAL.
AND I PULL UP THE WEBSITE.
I BEGAN TO READ AND IT BECAME
UNBELIEVABLE.
AND I STARTED HAVING THIS ALMOST
SICKENING FEELING ABOUT THIS CAN
THIS BE REAL?
Reporter: WEST BORO BAPTIST
CHURCH IS RUN BY A MINISTER
NAMED FRED PHELPS AND HE HAS A
WEB SIDE CALLED GOTHATESFADS.COM
AND THEIR MISSION IS TO TARGET,
HUMILIATE GAY PEOPLE.
WHEN THE GAY MARRIAGE SPLIT
HAPPENED IN SAN FRANCISCO IN
FEBRUARY OF LAST YEAR, THE
PHELPS CREW FLEW OUT THERE TO
PROTEST ON THE STEPS OF CITY
HALL, SO THEY ARE INTO PUBLIC
THEATER AND HUMILIATION AND GAYS
ARE THEIR TARGET.
AFTER I DID SOME RESEARCH ON
THEM ON THE INTERNET, THEN I
FOUND OUT WHO THEY WERE AND THEN
I THOUGHT, OKAY, HERE WE GO.
I WAS SO UPSET, I WAS SO
ANGRY, I COULDN'T EVEN -- I
COULD NOT EVEN SPEAK.
I WAS SO UPSET.
JUST TO SEE WHAT WAS WRITTEN ON
IT THAT SOMEBODY COULD WRITE
THAT ABOUT MY BABY BROTHER.
ON THESE FLYERS, THERE IS A
PICTURE OF MICHAEL SHACKELFORD
AND A PICTURE OF "THE WASHINGTON
POST" ARTICLE, GOD HATES FAGA
AND IT SAYS AND GOD HATES
MICHAEL SHACKELFORD.
THE FLYERS ASKS WAS THERE NO
GOSPEL IN SAND SPRINGS AND
BROKEN ARROW TO TELL MICHAEL
SHACKELFORD THAT SODOMY IS A
MONSTER SIN AGAINST GOD THAT
WILL DESTROY THE LIFE AND DAMN
THE SOUL?
I WAS NOT WORRIED ABOUT
PROTEST, BUT ABOUT MY MOM.
TO SEE MY SON'S NAME ON A
FLYER, HIS PICTURE AND TO SAY
GOD HATES MICHAEL SHACKELFORD, I
COULDN'T BEAR IT.
AND SO I WAS GOING TO GO PICK UP
THIS FLYER AND LOOK AT IT.
AS I WAS LEAVING MY FIRST JOB,
MY BROTHER IS WAITING FOR ME.
MY BROTHER AND MY SIDE OF THE
FAMILY DID NOT KNOW ABOUT
MICHAEL.
MY BROTHER GOES TO THE COFFEE
SHOP AND IS PRESENTED THIS FLYER
AND SO HE MEETS ME AND ASKED ME
IF I HAD SEEN THE FLYER, AND I
JUST -- WE SAT THERE IN THE
TRUCK AND CRIED TOGETHER.
HE SAID, "I THINK IT'S TIME TO
TELL YOUR FAMILY."
WHEN WE COME BACK, A TENSE
CONVERSATION OVER MICHAEL AND A
SURPRISING REACTION IN HIS
HOMETOWN.
IF YOU LIVE LIKE THE DEVIL,
YOU'RE GOI TO DIE AND GO
STRAIGHT TO HELL.
Reporter: THE MORNING OF
CHURCH THAT SUNDAY MORNING, I
GUESS WE WERE PREPARED.
WE KNEW THAT THEY WERE GOING
TO BE LINED UP AT THE ENTRANCE
TO THE CHURCH.
SPECIFICALLY AT THIS CHURCH
OR IN THIS EVIL TOWN TODAY
BECAUSE HIS LIFE STYLE IS TOUTED
AS MERELY AN INNOCENT ALTERNATE
LIFE STYLE THAT SOME PEOPLE IN
THE BIBLE BELT MIGHT STRUGGLE
WITH FROM TIME TO TIME.
I WENT BECAUSE I WANTED TO
SEE.
I WANTED TO SEE WHAT WAS GOING
ON AND SEE THEIR SIGNS AND SEE
WHO THEY WERE.
AND SEE IF THE CHURCH'S
REACTION.
I WANTED TO BE THERE SINCE I
FELT LIKE I WAS THE CAUSE OF IT.
I FELT KIND OF BAD.
IT WAS VERY SHOCKING BECAUSE
NOT ONLY WERE THE SIGNS
DEROGATORY TOWARDS HOMOSEXUALS,
YOU KNOW, THERE WERE THINGS LIKE
YOUR PREACHER IS LYING TO YOU.
THANK GOD FOR 9/11, THEY WERE
DRAGGING THE AMERICAN FLAG AND
WALKING ON IT.
I DID GET THE CHURCH READY.
I SPOKE WITH THEM THAT THEY WERE
COMING AND I ASKED THE CHURCH TO
FAST AND PRAY.
WHICH THEY DID.
I ALSO KNEW THAT THE SCRIPTURE
SAYS YOU DO NOT RETURN EVIL FOR
EVIL.
SO, TO ME, IF WE WERE TO STEP
ASIDE AND TRY TO TAKE THEM ON,
THAT WOULD DISTRACT FROM WHO WE
ARE.
WE'RE COMING TO WORSHIP GOD.
Reporter: THAT SUNDAY MORNING
AT CORNERSTONE, 300 TO 400 FOLKS
ARRIVED FOR CHURCH AND PASSING
THROUGH THE GAUNTLET OF
PROTESTERS.
ONCE THEY WERE IN THE DOORS OF
THE CHURCH, IT WAS VIBRANT AND
PEOPLE WERE PRAISING IN A HIGH
FASHION AND EUBANKS SAID FROM
THE PULPIT THAT "GOD LOVES US
ALL."
AND THERE WAS APPLAUSE AND THEN
HE SAYS, "GOD LOVES US ALL!"
AND THE PLACE WAS ON ITS FEET.
THERE WAS EXCITEMENT AND
INTENSITY WITH THE PEOPLE.
BECAUSE THEIR PLANS, THEIR
PRAYERS WAS TO WALK IN VICTORY.
AS I WALKED INTO CHURCH, OF
COURSE, I HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE
COME UP AND GIVE ME A HUG.
THERE WERE PEOPLE THAT WERE
SUPPORTING MICHAEL, THEY WERE
SUPPORTING SHELLEY, THAT WAS
FAMILY MEMBERS SUPPORTING ME.
AND I THINK PEOPLE THAT JUST
WERE CURIOUS.
A GUY CAME UP TO MICHAEL,
CREW CUT, BLUE JEANS HOLDING HIS
OWN BIBLE AND HE SAID, "MAN, YOU
BE WHO YOU ARE.
WE GOT YOUR BACK."
I FELT PRETTY BAD AND I TOLD
HIM IT OPENED MY EYES TO HOW
MUCH DISCRIMINATION WE DO HAVE.
EVERYBODY CAME UP TO ME AND
WERE SUPPORTIVE.
WHILE WE WERE STANDING UP THERE,
A GUY DROVE BY AND GAVE ME A
THUMB'S UP.
Reporter: MICHAEL WAS
OVERCOME BY THE SUPPORT.
HE COULDN'T BELIEVE THEY WERE
STANDING BEHIND HIM.
IN THE CONGREGATION, AS I
SAID, "MICHAEL, WE LOVE YOU,"
THEY BURST OUT IN APPLAUSE,
BECAUSE THEY DO.
AND IF YOU WERE TO ASK THEM WHAT
THEIR FEELINGS ARE ABOUT
HOMOSEXUALITY, THEY BELIEVE IT'S
A SIN.
BUT THEY LOVE MICHAEL.
YOU'RE DESPERATE.
YOU'RE SICK!
THE TOWN REALLY WAS OUTRAGED
WHEN PHELPS ARRIVED.
THE DAY OF THE PROTESTS AT THE
SCHOOL, LOTS OF PARENTS AND KIDS
HAD PAINTED THEIR CARS WITH
THEIR OWN SLOGANS TO COUNTER THE
VILE CLOGAN -- SLOGANS ON THE
PHELPS SIGNS SO IT WAS A CLASH
OF SENSIBILITIES AND IT WAS ALL
PLAYED OUT ON THE GROUND OF THE
SCHOOL.
YOU'RE EVIL!
THIS ONE GIRL HAD A BACKPACK
ON AND WAS A STUDENT AT CHARLES
PAIGE.
SHE TURNED AROUND TO THE
PROTESTERS AND SAID, "LEAVE OUR
HOMOS ALONE."
IT'S A LITTLE FUNNY, BUT I THINK
IT'S HOW A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE
TOWN FELT.
MICHAEL SHACKELFORD MIGHT BE A
SINNER, BUT HE'S OUR SINNER AND
HOW DARE YOU COME HERE AND
QUESTION OUR GODLINESS.
MICHAEL LOVES OKLAHOMA.
IT'S THE ONLY PLACE HE'S EVER
WANTED TO LIVE.
HE LOVES RIDING IN HIS TRUCK ON
A SUMMER NIGHT WITH THE WINDOWS
ROLLED DOWN AND RIDING ACROSS
THE ARKANSAS RIVER, BUT HE'S NOT
SURE THIS PLACE WILL ACCEPT HIM
AND HE CAN LIVE A LIFE HERE AS
HE REALLY IS.
I'M KIND OF TOSSED UP ON
THAT.
NOT FEELING WELCOME.
AND THE RECEPTION THAT I GET IS
WONDERFUL, BUT, STILL, IT'S JUST
ONE OF THOSE SINS THAT PEOPLE
KEEP LOOKING DOWN UPON, SO I
STILL JUST FEEL OUT OF PLACE.
I DON'T THINK HARASSMENT WILL
EVER GO AWAY FOR ANYONE,
ESPECIALLY IN SUCH A TOUCHY
SUBJECT AS HOMOSEXUALITY.
THERE IS SO MANY PEOPLE THAT ARE
SO AGAINST IT.
ESPECIALLY IN THE AREA WHERE WE
LIVE AND WHAT WE CALL THE BIBLE
BELT.
HOMOSEXUALITY IS JUST ALMOST
FORBIDDEN, AND IF YOU GO TO MORE
LIBERAL STATE, I DON'T THINK
THAT HE WOULD GET AS HARASSED.
I DON'T THINK I WOULD STICK
AROUND HERE.
I THINK THAT IF I WERE GAY, YOU
KNOW, I'D PROBABLY MOVE TO A
MORE LIBERAL STATE WHERE I WOULD
BE MORE LIKELY TO BE ACCEPTED.
I'D PROBABLY HEAD FOR
CALIFORNIA.
DEFINITELY.
I'LL BE BACK WITH A
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS,
NOTHING HAS REALLY BEEN
RESOLVED.
AFTER THAT INCIDENT WITH THE
FLAMES HE PAINTED ON HIS TRUCK,
MICHAEL SHACKELFORD DROPPED OUT
OF HIGH SCHOOL.
NEXT WEEK, HE PLANS TO TAKE HIS
EQUIVALENCY EXAM.
HE DOESN'T KNOW WHAT HE'LL DO
AFTER THAT.
THAT'S OUR REPORT FOR TONIGHT.
I'M TED KOPPEL IN WASHINGTON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT ABC NEWS,
GOOD NIGHT.
-- Captions by VITAC --
CAPTIONS MADE POSSIBLE BY
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AND ABC, INC.